feat: broadcast docs for beta (#786)
knocklabs/docs: content/concepts/broadcasts.mdx

---
title: Broadcasts
description: Power one-time, cross-channel messaging to your users through Knock.
tags: []
section: Concepts
---

<Callout
  emoji="🚧"
  text={
    <>
      Broadcasts are currently in beta. If you'd like early access, or this is
      blocking your adoption of Knock, please{" "}

>       <a href="mailto:support@knock.app?subject=Broadcasts%20beta%20access">

Reviewer: Nice touch on the subject 👌

        get in touch
      </a>
      .
    </>
  }
/>

> Broadcasts are a way to power one-time, cross-channel messaging to your users through Knock. They are built on Knock's [workflow engine](/concepts/workflows), giving you the power to create intelligent, cross-channel messaging across all of the [channels you've configured in Knock](/concepts/channels).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Broadcasts are a way to power one-time, cross-channel messaging to your users through Knock. They are built on Knock's [workflow engine](/concepts/workflows), giving you the power to create intelligent messaging across all of the [channels you've configured in Knock](/concepts/channels).
```
Maybe cut second mention of "cross-channel?" A bit redundant especially since we then say across all of the channels you've configured.

## Targeting users for a broadcast

Broadcasts can be targeted to a specific set of users [via an audience](/concepts/audiences), sent to all users in an environment, or sent to a specific set of users by uploading a CSV.

> Your users **must** exist within Knock in order to send them a broadcast. If you're looking to send a broadcast to users who don't exist within Knock, you can use a CSV to upload a list of users who will first be identified as users, and then sent the broadcast.

Reviewer: Typo: and then (sent -> send) the broadcast

Reviewer 2: Or is it "sent" because it's referring to the users after they're identified? Another alternative:
```suggestion
Your users **must** exist within Knock in order to send them a broadcast. If you're looking to send a broadcast to users who don't yet exist within Knock, you can use a CSV to upload a list of users who will first be identified before the broadcast is sent.
```

Reviewer: Ah yeah, that's probably how it's meant to be read

Reviewer 3: Piggybacking on matt's suggestion
```suggestion
Your users **must** exist within Knock in order to send them a broadcast. If you're looking to send a broadcast to users who don't exist within Knock, you can use a CSV to upload a list of users who will first be identified as users, and then sent the broadcast. You can also add a CSV of users as a new audience on the fly when when uploading it to a broadcast.
```

## Creating and managing broadcast content

> To manage the contents of a broadcast, you click the "Edit steps" button in the broadcast overview. This will open the broadcast builder, where you can add steps that will be executed for each user the broadcast is sent to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To manage the contents of a broadcast, click the "Edit steps" button in the broadcast overview. This will open the broadcast builder, where you can add steps that will be executed for each user the broadcast is sent to.
```

In the broadcast builder, you can add:

- [Delay functions](/designing-workflows/delay-function): to pause the execution of a broadcast for a specific amount of time.
- [Branch functions](/designing-workflows/branch-function): to conditionally execute steps based on the value of a variable.
- [Channel steps](/designing-workflows/channel-step): to send a message to a user on a specific channel.

When adding a channel step, you can select from any of the channel types you've configured in Knock to send a message to a user on that channel. Once you've added a channel step, you can design and manage the template for the step by selecting the channel step and clicking the "Edit template" button.

### Working with the template editor

The broadcast template editor is the same template editor you've come to know and love from [workflows](/concepts/workflows). You can read more about working in the template editor [here](/designing-workflows/template-editor/overview).

### Broadcast state

> When working with broadcasts, Knock will automatically expose the following variables to the broadcast builder and template editor, that you can use to personalize and control the broadcast:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When working with broadcasts, Knock will automatically expose the following variables to the broadcast builder and template editor which you can use to personalize and control the broadcast:
```

Reviewer 2: Or possibly even more concise:
```suggestion
Knock will automatically expose the following variables to the broadcast builder and template editor which you can use to personalize and control the broadcast:
```

- `recipient`: the user that the broadcast is being sent to.
- `vars`: the environment variables available to the broadcast.

> - `tenant`: in the event that your broadcast has been triggered to an user-tenant audience member, this will be the full tenant object linked.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `tenant`: in the event that your broadcast has been triggered to a user-tenant audience member, this will be the full tenant object linked.
```

You can access the broadcast state in the broadcast builder by toggling the state pane. All of these variables are also available [in the template editor](/designing-workflows/template-editor/variables).

## Broadcasts and the environment model

> Unlike workflows and other resources in Knock, broadcasts do not have to be committed or promoted to an environment before they can be used. In fact, unlike workflows, broadcasts are **environment-specific** and can be created in any environment (including production).

Reviewer 4: Not necessary for the Beta release, but once it is GA, we will want to also make an update to this page: https://docs.knock.app/concepts/environments

> If you wish to mirror a flow where you create a broadcast in development, and then use it in production you can do so by _copying_ the broadcast to the production environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you wish to mirror a flow where you create a broadcast in development and then use it in production, you can do so by _copying_ the broadcast to the production environment.
```

Reviewer 3: just using our language from the dashboard here
```suggestion
If you wish to mirror a flow where you create a broadcast in development, and then use it in production you can do so by _cloning_ the broadcast to the production environment.
```
I think we should add a note here that users from the broadcast will not be copied over and they'll need to select an audience from their production env or upload users to the broadcast in that environment.

## Scheduling broadcasts

> Broadcasts can optionally be scheduled to send at a specific time. When a broadcast is scheduled, you will see the status of the broadcast reflected as scheduled on the date and time you specified. Scheduled broadcasts can be cancelled before they are sent, should you wish to make any changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Broadcasts can optionally be scheduled to send at a specific time. When a broadcast is scheduled, you will see the status of the broadcast reflected as scheduled on the date and time you specified. Scheduled broadcasts can be canceled before they are sent, should you wish to make any changes.
```
American spelling as per writing style guide

## Broadcast analytics

> Broadcasts produce messages, exactly as workflows do. As such, messages sent as part of a broadcast will be visible in the Analytics page within the Knock dashboard. Additionally, broadcast engagement metrics are available in the any [connected data warehouses](/integrations/extensions/data-sync).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Broadcasts produce messages, exactly as workflows do. As such, messages sent as part of a broadcast will be visible in the **Analytics** page within the Knock dashboard. Additionally, broadcast engagement metrics are available in the any [connected data warehouses](/integrations/extensions/data-sync).
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Broadcasts produce messages, exactly as workflows do. As such, messages sent as part of a broadcast will be visible in the Analytics page within the Knock dashboard. Additionally, broadcast engagement metrics are available in any [connected data warehouses](/integrations/extensions/data-sync).
```
^ Also a small typo

We'll be adding in additional inline analytics to the broadcast page in the coming months. Please [reach out to us](mailto:support@knock.app?subject=Broadcast%20analytics) if you'd like to learn more about this.

## Testing broadcasts

> You can test a broadcast by clicking the "Run test" button in the broadcast overview, and on the broadcast builder. This will allow you to select a specific test user to send the broadcast to. When you've run a test, you'll see the run log for the broadcast in the "Runs" tab. You'll also see any messages generated as part of the test run in the "Messages" tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can test a broadcast by clicking the "Run test" button in the broadcast overview or on the broadcast builder. This will allow you to select a specific test user to send the broadcast to. When you've run a test, you'll see the run log for the broadcast in the "Runs" tab. You'll also see any messages generated as part of the test run in the "Messages" tab.
```

## Debugging and observing broadcasts

Broadcasts are processed in the same way as workflows, and as such, you can use the same tools to debug and observe broadcasts as you can workflows.

- **Messages** generated from a broadcast are available under the "Messages" logs, which you can find in the main sidebar on the dashboard, under a user's profile, or within a specific broadcast.

> - **Runs** generated from executing broadcasts are available under the "Runs" tab, which you can find under the "Developers" section of the sidebar, under a user's profile, or within a specific broadcast.

Reviewer 4: We typically bold pages ([style guide](https://www.notion.so/knockapp/Knock-writing-style-guide-9fd5eaf44be54994ad8741d1c86f20f1?pvs=4#d11b106f70014ce5a212b11a64b0a60a)) but in doing so, there may be too many bolded words in this section (i.e. with **Messages** and **Runs** at the start of each sentence)

Additionally, developer tools and extensions are available for broadcasts as they are workflows.

- **Outbound webhooks**: all messages produced by a broadcast will emit outbound webhook events.
- **Observability extensions**: all processing metrics produced by a broadcast will be sent to the observability tools you have configured (Datadog and New Relic).
- **CDP and analytics extensions**: all message events produced by a broadcast will be sent to the CDP and analytics tools you have configured (Segment and Heap).

> - **Data warehouse sync**: all messages produced by a broadcast will be visible within your Knock messages table.

Reviewer 4: Do we want to add links to the docs for these different tools?

> - **Data warehouse sync**: all messages produced by a broadcast will be visible within your Knock messages table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Data warehouse sync**: all messages produced by a broadcast will be visible within your Knock `messages` table.
```
To match styling used on DW sync page

## Broadcasts and user preferences

Broadcasts respect all [user preferences](/concepts/preferences) that are configured in Knock. That means for any categories added to a broadcast, preferences linked to those categories will be respected. Additionally, any channel type preferences set for a user will be respected during the execution of a broadcast.

> We're also working on a new set of promotional preference settings that will automatically add a 1-click unsubscribe header and link to your email messages, to respect CAN-SPAM compliance. This will be available in the coming weeks.

Reviewer 3: I think this is going to be available when we release these docs.

## Frequently asked questions

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Who can create and send broadcasts?">

>     Owners, admins, and members can create and send broadcasts to users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    `owner`, `admin`, and `member` [roles](/manage-your-account/roles-and-permissions) can create and send broadcasts to users.
```
